http://cloudcity.sf.net
baghira-style@gmx.net (please include "bespin" in subject)

Bespin is a widgetstyle for Qt4, the name is nothing about quantum mechanics,
but just refers to cloud city (StarWars Episode V: The Empire Strikes Back)

I assume this could trigger some questions, so i'll try to pre-answer them

FAQ:

Q: weren't you supposed to write the Oxygen style (http://www.oxygen-icons.org)?
A: Yes.

Q: So what...?
A: Left the team.

Q: Why?
A: Key reason was that the style as it was was said to be "ugly, unmaintainable"
and "worst" ever in kdelibs. Someone insinuated i was ignoring the artists.
Then there were some communication errors, i'm paranoid and now here ;)

Q: Did you have argues with the Oxygen artists/team?
A: Nope - at least not from my point. Work has allways been respectfull, polite
and productive (though there were of course discussions)

Q: So did you ignore the artist wishes?
A: Once again, not from my point of view. I don't know whether it may have
appeared like that, though. If, it certainly was not intended.

Q: So what's this here?
A: I wrote a bunch of code and spent a lot of time on this work. It may be "ugly
and unmaintainable", but i guess that's my problem. Just didn't wanna throw it
away.
So i started modifying it just as personal fun-project, there's still a lot of
oxygen design ideas in it - e.g. some ideas of Nuno that were dropped for
oxygen.

Q: Did you steal any code from the Oxygen Team?
A: Every single line is written by my (ok, some are just adjustments of
QCommonStyle ;P ) i wrote it for Oxygen, but /I/ wrote it.

Q: So why should i use it?
A: Don't know? Cause you like it? (I guess, if not, just leave it... ;)

Q: But the code is bad...?
A: Don't know. At least: yes - i do not tend to create very clean code, more
condensed one.
However, i assume you're not interested in reading the code but in polishing
your desktop - that should do. (If not, just make a bug report)

Q: Is this an offense to the Oxygen Team?
A: Nope. (At least not by intention) I don't feel offended at all.
(I did NOT leave the Team because of this, but working on your own has its
advances. E.g. faster decision taking ;)